Add BigQuery source doc (#10885)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/cdp/sources/bigquery.md

---
title: Linking BigQuery as a source
sidebar: Docs
showTitle: true
availability:
  free: full
  selfServe: full
  enterprise: full
---

> The BigQuery connector links your tables to PostHog. You must grant a limited set of permissions so the connector can create, query, and delete temporary tables without exposing your entire BigQuery environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can connect your BigQuery tables to PostHog by configuring it as a source. You must grant a limited set of permissions so the connector can create, query, and delete temporary tables without exposing your entire BigQuery environment.
```

## Requirements

> - [A Google Cloud Service Account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-account-overview) with the required permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [A Google Cloud Service Account](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-account-overview) with the permissions described below
```

> - Google Cloud JSON Key file for that account Dataset ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Google Cloud JSON Key file for that account's Dataset ID
```

- (Optional) A Dataset ID for temporary tables

> ## Service account setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring BigQuery
```

> To securely connect your BigQuery account with PostHog, you should create a dedicated service account with the minimum required permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To securely connect your BigQuery account to PostHog, create a dedicated service account with the minimum required permissions:
```

1. **Create a service account:**
- Go to the [**Google Cloud Console.**](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
- Navigate to **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts.**
- Click **Create Service Account.**
- Provide a descriptive name (e.g., `bigquery-posthog-service-account`) and a brief description.
2. **Assign required permissions:**
- For simplicity, you can assign the **BigQuery Data Editor** and **BigQuery Job User** roles if it meets your security requirements.
- Alternatively, create a custom role that includes only these permissions:
    ```
    bigquery.datasets.get
    bigquery.jobs.create
    bigquery.tables.get
    bigquery.tables.list
    bigquery.tables.getData
    bigquery.tables.create
    bigquery.tables.updateData
    bigquery.tables.delete
    ```
3. **Generate and download the service account key:**
- Once the service account is created, click on it and select the **Keys** tab.
- Click **Add Key > Create new key**, choose **JSON**, and download the key file.
- **Important:** Store the JSON key securely, as it contains sensitive credentials.

> ## How to link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuring PostHog
```

> 1. Go to the [Data pipeline page](https://us.posthog.com/pipeline/sources) and the sources tab in PostHog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In PostHog, go to the **[Data pipelines](https://us.posthog.com/pipeline/sources)** tab, then choose **sources**
```

2. Click **New source** and select BigQuery

> 3. Drag or drop the **Google Cloud JSON Key file** to upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Drag and drop the **Google Cloud JSON Key file** to upload
```
